RESULTS:
Total Sentences: 50
Total Words: 1000
Total Syllables 1596
Reading Level Score 51.51340000000002
Reading Level: 10th to 12th Grade Reading Level

Adam Stewart
Jack Mangala
AAA 200 01
24 Apr. 2017
Final Paper
	After 12 weeks of learning about the history, culture, and potential of Africa, my understanding of Africa is greater than it’s ever been.  Some of the history was the part I was most familiar with, prior to this class.  European countries colonizing Africa after the Berlin Conference, Africa having valuable resources, and eventually gaining their freedom across the mid-twentieth century were all topics I was familiar with. The part of history I was much less familiar with was after African countries started to become independent.
	There was a lot going on in this time period.  World War II had ended just a couple of decades ago, with the world now in the midst of the Cold War.  African countries get to make first impressions as independent countries to the world.  Due to all of these circumstances, relationships with many countries could be made for a newly independent country as the world was silently fighting against communism.  Because of this, countries could attain aid while economies stabilize, and people get their footing, however things weren’t so simple.  
	Africa, even to this day, struggles to find stability.  As we got to learn firsthand, from reading Half of the Yellow Sun by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, fighting and corruption soon became inevitable for many regions.  Even today, there’s instability in African countries like Somalia, Sudan, and Syria.  And despite the goal of aid, it might also be a partial cause to this.  We learned that not all aid, is good aid.  Due to aid being uncontrollable in the format and timing, it can easily provoke economies.  How are local food laborers supposed to make a living when cheaper rice is coming into the country via aid?  And how are people supposed to afford food when there’s no more aid food available?  
	To further expand on the corruption, there’s been clear problems in some of African country’s historical leaders, as shown in “Big Man” syndrome.  Corruption is also further shown in Half of the Yellow Sun in the latter portions of the novel.  I was also taught much about the culture of Africa.  About how lineage works in Africa, different types of marriages, ceremonies, etc.  Ceremonies like the Rite of Passive, which is an initiate into manhood, but how a similar ceremony for women is much more brutal.  
	All in all, the way I see Africa is basically a bunch of countries who are late to the game.  By that I mean, there are countries that have had their independence, and been building infrastructures for centuries.  African countries aren’t so fortunate.  Due to colonization, they aren’t really joining the game until less than a century ago, whereas the U.S., European countries, Asian countries have all been in the game for centuries.  Because of this, Africa is unstable.  It’s one of the most unstable regions in the world, however, it only has room to grow.  
	It seems like some countries in Africa have hit rock bottom at some point, but they strive for peace and harmony, and by that, there’s only room for growth.  African countries are connecting and doing more than ever before with the help of cell phones.  An incredible boom in cellphone population has occurred over the last decade in Africa, which strengthens infrastructure, and gives more options for what people can do to help make their lives and country better.  
	It is incredibly difficult to dig poor countries out from a burden of debt, but Africa has the ball in their court for once.  They’re prospected to have the largest population in the future, still with many valuable resources, and more stable governments than ever before.  There’s never been a better opportunity to dig themselves out of the aid/debt hole than going forward.  On top of that’s it projected for African countries to have high fertility rates and life expectancy rates.
	Not to mention that African countries have been building relationships with countries such as the U.S., China, etc.  Also, African countries are on the path to have risen percentages in urbanization, human development, literacy, and health.  Africa’s future has never look brighter, if all things go right.
	As far as cultural differences, it’s not as much as one might expect.  Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie made the joke herself in her Ted Talk: The Danger of a Single Story about how she listened to Mariah Carey, and wasn’t nearly as different as her friend was expecting her to be.  One could make large distinctions decades ago when marriage styles, ceremonies, and ideas were much more commonly different than westerners.  However, many cultural differences have faded, and the world has become more global than ever, with the rise of the internet. As an online infrastructure comes more and more into place over the next couple decades, Africa will blend in with world as a whole more than ever before.
	After taking this class, I personally have understood Africa better, but the same can’t necessarily be said to those who just get a glimpse through the media.  The way people are taught in general-purpose history classes, or in the media, it is looked at with much more extremes.  Extremes such as Africa being an extremely violent, dirt poor continent, and that there’s no infrastructure at all.  It’s not that none of these things haven’t prevailed to an extent, but never to the drastic lengths, especially in this day and age.  The media also focuses heavily on the past and present, and is never focusing the potential of the future.  
	In the end, I enjoyed my time spent understanding Africa, and would definitely recommend it to others.  It strengthened the little understanding I already had incoming to the class, while further expanding to areas I didn’t know about, such as the late twentieth century history, culture, current struggles, and projections to the future.
