RESULTS:
Total Sentences: 38
Total Words: 1142
Total Syllables 1972
Reading Level Score 30.244713798506808
Reading Level: College Reading Level

Samuel Jones
References: Mr. Kos AP History teacher
History major GPA: 3.94
My Introduction to the Radical World Of the Revolution
In the field of American history, scholars have continually questioned how radical the
American Revolution actually was. How revolutionary was the revolution? I was first proposed
this question in my AP U.S. course and as an inexperienced freshman historian I reacted with
indignation to the prospect of someone questioning the radicalism of my nation’s founding. As
time went on though and I became serious about perusing a career in history, particularly
American Revolutionary history, I began reexamining the question mentioned before and even
more importantly I began asking the question of what constitutes being radical and revolutionary.
Around this time I approached one of my professors for a list of authors who have covered the
revolution. From this list I came to discover Gordon Wood and his Pulitzer Prize winning The
Radicalism of the American Revolution. In his book, Wood examines how America changed,
beginning in the early eighteenth century all the way up to the Jacksonian era. Needless to say he
covers a wide range of ways in which the revolution changed America. The topic that has most
stuck with me and helps demonstrate why I have come to enjoy this book so much is his ideas on
patronage. This helped me better understand early American society and how revolutionary the
revolution was. More significantly Radicalism of the American Revolution gave me a greater
appreciation for the characters and ideas that came out of this time, all the while teaching me
vital lessons on being a historian.
2
One of Wood’s main arguments for the radicalism of the revolution was how the system
of patronage that persisted before the revolution seemed too evaporated after the war. This not
only helped me better understand my overall question, but it showed me parts of early America I
never knew existed. Early on Wood draws a distinction in society between commoners and
gentlemen. Like most people today, before I read this book, I only ever thought of the word
gentlemen as a polite term used when addressing a group of men. Wood, however, shows that
“gentlemen in the English-speaking world constituted a distinct group separated from ordinary
people to a degree that can only astonish late-twentieth-century Americans.”1
 A gentleman had to
be educated, he had to dress a certain way, he had to talk a certain way, he could only hold
certain professions, and he had to be “disinterested” (another term Wood helped clarify for me).
Within in this two class society I learned there existed a system that kept the gentleman and
ordinary man closely bound together as patron and client. “Society was held together by intricate
networks of personal loyalties, obligations, and quasi-dependencies.”2
 Though rooted in the
English tradition of patronage, in sparsely populated colonial American the system took on a
more personal and less entrenched status. Everyone was in debt to someone either financially or
through social obligation. If a person were to seek a better job, he would need the good word of a
connected gentleman, or if a family wanted a farm to work, they might become tenants of one of
the elite planters. The elite also relied on the rent and favors their clients owed them. Learning
about this system, which I previously had no knowledge of and exposing the false
preconceptions I once had is one of the biggest reasons I love this book and why I was drawn
into this unique period of time.
1
 Gordon S. Wood, The Radicalism of the American Revolution (New York: Vintage Books, 1992), 26. 2
 Ibid., 57.
3
With the beginning of the revolution and the publishing of the Declaration of
Independence, Wood shows how America’s patronage system changed. What I enjoyed out of
this was that by highlighting this change, the author shows the emergence of a new national
identity that persists to this day. The patronage and social distinctions of America were already
starting to decay prior to the revolution, but it was the Republican rhetoric of everyone being a
citizen, not just the elite, that did away with the previous system. “By adopting the title of
citizens for members of their new republics, the revolutionaries thereby threatened the distinctive
status of ‘gentleman’ and put more egalitarian pressure on their society,” writes Wood. “Within
decades following the Declaration of Independence, the United States became the most
egalitarian nation in the history of the world, and it remains so today.”3
 While reading this I
began to see the formation of national characteristics that over two hundred years later helps us
define ourselves as Americans. These fundamental shifts in society and the development of a
national identity were part of the many ways in which I latched onto this book.
In a broader sense, the biggest reasons for my love of this book was it gave me a greater
love for revolutionary history and it provided important lessons on being a historian. Radicalism
helped me throw off many of the grade school misconceptions that I held about the founding
fathers and the founding of our nation. It helped me better understand the many different reasons
that led to the revolution, while also acquainting me with the reasons and ideas behind the
principles on which this country was founded on. Now admittedly Wood does seem to put the
founders on a pretty high pedestal, but his commentary on them did get me interested further in
the founders and their often competing ideas about how the country should have been run. Wood
also helped show me how to be a better historian. He exposed me to endless new questions about
3
 Wood, Radicalism, 233.
4
early American society, such as those about patronage. The research Wood exhibits and the ways
he implements it into his writing has provided me with helpful examples which I try to emulate
in my writings. His work has greatly influenced the way I approach the subject of history today.
Gordon Wood’s Radicalism of the American Revolution has had a profound impact on
the field of early American history and myself. Through his description of patronage I learned
and grew a fond appreciation for parts of colonial America which I never knew existed. All the
while his arguments, such as how egalitarian ideals revolutionized America, answered some of
my questions regarding the radicalism of our revolution. I loved how this book shattered a
number of my preconceptions about the revolution and showed me different ways in which the
national identity that we hold today was established. Most importantly Wood’s book gave me a
passion for the subject of revolutionary American and instructions on how to be a better
historian, which I hope to apply in my career to come.