Total Sentences: 59
Total Words: 1417
Total Syllables 2434
Reading Level Score 37.13923627142569
Reading Level: College Reading Level

Samuel Jones
Ordinary Men: A Microhistory of Human Rationale
What best explains the motivation of everyday German citizens who lived during the
Nazi regime to commit mass genocide? Since learning about the Holocaust at an early age, I
have been interested in understanding why ordinary German civilians followed the heinous plan
to exterminate European Jews. In my search to find out why men were driven to murder, I was
met with a basic rationale for the Holocaust, which argued that the bulk of German men and
women were anti-Semites who both blindly and willingly followed the Nazi regime. This answer
was not sufficient to me; there had to be more to the story of everyday people in Nazi Germany
and their acquiescence with the Holocaust. Then, I read Christopher Browning’s book, Ordinary
Men: Reserved Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland, and it left me with a
thought provoking message that changed my perspective as a person and historian.
Christopher Browning, an internationally respected American Holocaust historian, sought
to answer the question “How [did] regular German men [find] themselves killing millions of
Polish Jews?” in his award-winning book Ordinary Men. Browning’s book changed the way the
Holocaust was studied; for the first time the Holocaust was explored through the eyes of its
perpetrators. The Final Solution had previously been associated, at least in the popular
imagination, with concentration camps and murder on an industrial scale. However, Browning’s
work revealed that millions of individuals died as a result from face to face encounters with
drafted reserved forces. The men of Police Battalion 101 were police officers, not soldiers,
posted in Nazi occupied Poland. Their objective was to guard trains and round up Jewish
individuals into ghettos. The battalion was also involved in the execution of men, women, and
children who were declared inferior in the eyes of the Third Reich. A cursory reading of these 
2
men’s actions suggests that Nazi Germany was evil, and therefore the Police Battalion was evil
as well. Browning explores a different avenue of thinking about the Holocaust. He argues that it
was not Nazi ideology that drove the men of Police Battalion 101 to kill but camaraderie, peer
pressure, and desire for social mobility that persuaded the men to commit mass genocide.
Ordinary Men is unique because it does not adopt a singular approach to understanding the
Holocaust: that Germans were evil. Browning instead tackles the Holocaust as a social historian,
creating a microhistory of the lives of the members of Reserved Police Battalion 101 and their
transformation from ordinary men into murderers.
Browning does not want the reader to see the men of Reserved Police Battalion 101 as
monsters, nor does he want his readers to see them as the Fuhrer’s brainwashed minions. Instead,
Browning argues that these men were ‘ordinary’. They were not fanatical Nazis. In fact, many
had no affiliation with the Nazi party, stating that only “twenty five percent were Party members
in 1942.”1
 Many members of the Battalion were averse to violence and therefore reluctant to
shoot. According to Browning, a number of men, “saturated in the blood of victims shot at point
blank range,”2
 grew visibly ill at the sight of the dead bodies. Moreover, the men were given the
opportunity not to shoot victims and could do so without being punished. The men had a choice;
they were not forced to kill. Yet when told to shoot, about eighty percent did. To understand why
this was the case, Browning turned to Stanley Milgram, an American social psychologist, who
found that people had a propensity to obey authority figures, even when instructions involved
inflicting pain on others. Based on Milgram’s research, Browning determined that men became
killers for commonplace reasons. These reasons were loyalty to comrades, job growth anxiety,
and an absence of moral reflection—everyday concepts in daily life.
1 Ordinary Men 48.
2 Ordinary Men 162.
3
Browning concluded that the Holocaust was not the result of a unique form of German
prejudice against Jewish people, but had been brought about by the human errors present in
much of contemporary Western thought. The mindset of these mass killers was indeed ordinary.
Browning turned to the war in the Pacific and Vietnam as an example for a comparative
approach to the police battalion’s actions. He states that American soldiers slaughtered prisoners
and mutilated corpses of unarmed civilians and helpless captives. These American soldiers, in
Browning’s mind, “were inured to violence” and numbed to taking human life.3
 The American
soldiers in South East Asia adopted a “take no prisoners” approach to the war, collecting the
dismembered parts of their Japanese victims as battlefield souvenirs. This suggests that
Americans were capable of committing similar crimes, though on a much-smaller scale.
Ordinary Men opened my eyes to human nature and its propensity to do evil deeds; Browning
instructs his readers that the problem of evil was not solely a German issue, but a human one.
Notwithstanding, there are some flaws with Ordinary Men, Browning is quick to believe
the men of Police Battalion 101 when they claimed to have had reservations about killing. He
states that these men believed “orders were orders, and no one in such a political climate could
be expected to disobey them… and therefore [the men of Reserved Police Battalion 101] could
not be held responsible for their actions.”4
 Did they downplay their anti-Semitism; probably,
since their lives were in jeopardy during trial. (What Trial?) These men likely had no choice but
to defend their actions and the easiest way to do this was to blame their superior officers, which
obscured from their actions. However, this critique does not take away from the
accomplishments and message of Browning’s book. He does not subscribe to a narrow
interpretation of German history, which dictates that the Holocaust prevailed because anti3
Ordinary Men 160.
4
 Ordinary Men 170. 
4
Semitism reigned throughout Nazi Germany. In addition, he is not interested in condemning
Germany as an inherently wicked nation, nor was he excusing the actions of the ordinary men
who committed mass murder. Instead, Browning sought to explain the reason why ordinary men
became killers. In doing so, he argues that simple conclusions about the actions of everyday
German men does not tell the full history of the Holocaust.
Ordinary Men is an inquiry into the aspects of human rationale. It is a study of human
motivation and how ordinary men can commit astonishing evil. Through meticulous archival
research and vivid writing, Browning brings the Holocaust to light in an entirely new
perspective. Browning demonstrates that the systematic killing of Jews developed out of a
precise set of circumstances and cannot be reduced to anti-Semitism. His book looks at a
microhistory, reconstructing the actions of Police Battalion 101. Browning did not find hardened
criminals looking to vent their anti-Semitic feelings toward Jews but ordinary German men. By
focusing on the unremarkable and comparatively unimportant characteristics of these men,
Browning uses their “normality” as a tool to unlock broader historical processes. The
motivations that drove these men to murder are the same incentives that people succumb to
everyday. These Germans were ordinary men who faced similar circumstances that the
Americans confronted in Japan, Vietnam, and more recently, Iraq. The potential of evil exists
within each of us. Browning’s book, Ordinary Men, highlights mankind’s capacity to commit
heinous deeds and warns that only a slim line prevents ordinary men from doing ‘extraordinary’
evil.
Browning’s book encapsulates what being a historian truly means; for this reason,
Ordinary Men is my favorite book. His ability to set aside his own ethical perspective on the
Holocaust to present a detailed historical account of Reserve Police Battalion 101 is astonishing. 
5
After reading Ordinary Men, I now try to view historical evidence as objectively as Browning
does in his book. Thanks to Browning, I am more skeptical of evidence and misuse of historical
documents. He enlightened me on the dangers of conforming to one strand of historical thought.
Before Browning, it was a commonly held belief, even among historians, that the only major
influence on ordinary Germans to commit mass atrocities was anti-Semitism. Browning
unlocked the gateway for social historians to view the Holocaust from a different lens. In the
same way, I desire to step outside the conventional wisdom and use primary and secondary
source material to construct historical arguments that have not yet been realized.