RESULTS:
Total Sentences: 17
Total Words: 604
Total Syllables 1141
Reading Level Score 10.957084144916251
Reading Level: College Graduate Reading Level

Samuel Jones
Professor Huner
HST 331
The first source, “The Tupamaros in Action,” is a tactically handbook instructing urban
Uruguayan guerillas on how to conduct clandestine warfare while maintaining the popular
support of the people. It also talks a great deal about the importance of women participation in
the guerilla army, asserting that they should play an equally active role as their male
counterparts. The second source, “Confessions of a Torturer,” is the transcript of Nancy
Guzmán’s interview of Chilean torturer Osvaldo Romo. Throughout the interview, Guzmán, like
many in the international political sphere, seems to be attempting to ascertain how an individual
can commit such atrociously violent crimes against other human beings. What she is able to
glean from Romo, however, is singularly disturbing.
These sources offer a comprehensive insight into the agendas and mentalities of both
sides of the subversive and counterinsurgent parties during the Cold War in Latin America. The
first source looks, a guide on conducting successful guerilla operations, shows how insurgent
paramilitary organizations tried to adopt tactics that would avoid having a “potentially adverse
impact on public opinion.”
 This preoccupation with maintaining public support for the
movement’s subversive activities reflects their desire to disseminate revolutionary fervor
throughout Uruguay. While the text often promotes a measured and calculating approach to
violence, asserting that “the application of revolutionary violence can be counterproductive,”
 it
nevertheless reveals that the guerillas’ dedication to their cause did not forgo the use of fierce
armed resistance: “eliminating the human agents of repression…may be sufficient to cause the
regime to collapse.”
 This source also reveals the guerilla movement’s departure from oppressive
gender norms in traditional Uruguayan society. Women, the rebels asserted, should “contribute
equally to the revolution, even providing service as combatants.”
 The extent of this feminist
conceptualization of the possible role of women was limited, however, as later we hear that the
rebels saw a woman’s ability to cook and add a feminist touch to their operations as an
invaluable asset (an assertion that subscribes congruently to patriarchal thought).
In “Confessions of a Torturer,” we get an insight into the opposite side of this conflict:
the counterinsurgency agents in the military-led governments of many Cold War era Latin
American countries. First, Nancy Guzmán’s questioning prompts Romo to reflect on the great
care taken to preserve secrecy in the Chilean government’s counterinsurgency efforts. As the
interview proceeds, Guzmán’s questions become more focused on the actual methods utilized by
government forces; Romo’s responses become more chilling. The ideology Romo operated
under, as it becomes clear, was identical to red-scare thought in the U.S. during this period. At
one point Romo asserts that all the guerilla operatives were “Marxists or Marxist-Leninists.” This similarity in thinking between Romo and United States policy makers is explained by
Romo’s revelation that he learned counterinsurgency methods and torture at the U.S School of
the Americas in Panama.
 This reflects back on another key component of the Cold War as it
played out in Latin America: the role of the United States in supporting/installing military
dictatorships in opposition to “Communist” forces. Overall, Romo’s lack of empathy for his
victims or remorse for the atrocities he committed reflects the degree to which he had
dehumanized the rebel insurgents, making torturing and murdering them no different than
brutalizing a dangerous animal. Ultimately Romo’s confessions serve to remind us of the dangers
of Cold War ideologies and the role the U.S. played in maintaining brutal autocratic regimes in
Latin America at a time when many Latin American’s were advocating for a more inclusive
political system.