RESULTS:
Total Sentences: 107
Total Words: 1668
Total Syllables 2585
Reading Level Score 59.902670947354295
Reading Level: 10th to 12th Grade Reading Level

Devin O’Connor
Professor Hayes Griffin
Music 301
26 September 2017
One Man with a Banjo
Few men have had a life as full and inspiring as Pete Seeger. He had the extraordinary
ability to get others to sing along with him. Not just to move their mouths and vocal chords, but
to actually get them involved in what he was singing about. He used music as his medium and
tool to affect the hearts of all his listeners. This made him a dangerous enemy, especially during
the early 1950s and beyond. His music was political, powerful, and true to the people it was
about. Folk music was of the people, by the people, and for the people. He used his music to
fight injustice. Unionization, civil rights, war, pollution, and equality were all topics of his songs.
They were polarizing to those who disagreed, and even made him the target of federal
investigation. But he triumphed over them. He was a key figure in the folk revival of the 1950s
and 1960s, and became the spokesperson of the everyman. But how did a simple banjo picker
become the legend he is known as today?
Pete Seeger was born into his musical family in 1919 Midtown Manhattan. His father
was an academically trained composer and Musicologist who was the head of the music
department at the University of California, while his mother trained at the Paris Conservatory of
Music, and eventually taught at what is now known as the Julliard School of Music (Pete
Seeger). Two of his siblings, Peggy and Mike, also became very well-known folk artists, but
never reached the fame of their brother. In 1936, Seeger went with his father to a music festival
in North Carolina, where he fell in love with his most noteworthy instrument, the five-string 
Devin O’Connor 2
banjo (“Pete Seeger”). It was the perfect environment for a future singer-songwriter to grown up
in. It was during this time that he learned an important lesson. Folk songs often had different
versions, words, melody, and verses could all be changed or added. The lesson was you could
choose what version to sing (Pete Seeger). His interest in folk music, and disinterest in the pop
music, eventually led him to Alan Lomax.
It was through Lomax that he heard songs that were about more than just unrequited love.
They were about love, hate, protest, and many more topics. According to Seeger himself, he said,
“These are great songs. Twice as good as anything that the Tin Pan Alley songwriters are
writing. Ten times as good as anything Stephen Foster is wrote. And it’s American down to the
core” (Pete Seeger). He knew at the time that the pop songs of his day were purely for
entertainment. It was what the corporations wanted you to hear and believe. But Seeger knew
that music was more than that, it could and should be used as a powerful medium. He ended
working with Lomax, listening to the music his father, John A. Lomax, had recorded from all
over the country. Not soon after, Seeger met America’s most iconic, and political singers,
Woody Guthrie.
It was with Woody Guthrie that he travelled the United States, singing for striking
workers, displaced farmers, and started associating with leftwing causes (“Pete Seeger”). Woody
and several others formed Seeger’s first band, The Almanac Singers, in 1941, when he was
twenty-one years old. This was the start of his activism on a national scale and it attracted the
attention of many. It was with their album, “Songs for John Doe,” that they criticized President
Roosevelt’s decision to enter World War II. In a time when most music had nothing to do with
real life events, this music stood out. During this time, He also married his wife Toshi-Aline Ota 
Devin O’Connor 3
in 1943. He also joined the Communist Party and sang at their rallies and meetings (“Pete
Seeger”). Little did he know how much trouble this would cause for him.
The 1950s brought commercial fame, and later misfortune, to Seeger. His new band, The
Weavers, were making it big. Their music was being played across the nation, and their songs
were toping the charts. Their biggest being “Irene Goodnight,” which was number one on the
Billboard charts for 13 weeks. He also released the first instructional book for banjo players,
entitled “How to play the five-string banjo.” For the first time in decades, the banjo was being
discovered by thousands of new people. Dave Guard of the Kingston Trio started out by using
Seeger’s book. But just as their commercial success was taking off, the red scare took over. Pete
was brought before the House of Un-American Activities Committee in 1955, and was
interrogated over his relation to the Communist Party. According to Clark and Borchert, Seeger
refused to answer any questions about his philosophical, political, or religious beliefs. The only
answer he gave was this, “I am proud of the fact that my songs seem to cut across and find
perhaps a unifying thing, basic humanity, and that is why I would love to be able to tell you
about these songs, because I feel that you would agree with me more, sir." He volunteered to
discuss any of the songs he performed, or even to perform them, but this was refused. He was
then blacklisted for most of the 1950s and 1960s from appearing on television, ending the
commercial success of The Weavers (Clark and Borchert). However, this didn’t stop him from
getting his songs to the people.
Instead of appearing on national television, Seeger performed at colleges, protests, music
festivals, and around the world. It was also his first foray into a technology that he was
somewhat against, television. He and his wife started a local tv show in New York, called
“Rainbow Quest.” Although he disliked the idea of people mindlessly watching tv, he realized it 
Devin O’Connor 4
could be used for good with his quote “TV is the greatest medium. It's a goddamned shame that
nobody is presenting it right” (The Incompleat Folksinger 447). His show brought folk, country,
and blues artists from around the country into the homes of Americans. These artists included
Johnny Cash, June Carter, Mike Seeger, Mississippi John Hurt, Doc Watson, and many others.
His blacklist ended in 1967 when he appeared on the Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour, a
national show produced by CBS. Unfortunately, they cut out his performance of “Waist Deep in
the Big Muddy,” his newest anti-war song (“Pete Seeger”). It portrayed the President as the “big
fool” who doesn’t know when to quit. His protest songs not only covered the war, but also the
Civil Rights Movement. He was heavily involved in the movement and even played a role in
giving them their anthem “We Shall Overcome.” Besides his activism, he also was directly
involved in the creation of the folk-rock genre.
Seeger was a close friend and advocate of Bob Dylan. It makes sense since Seeger’s
friend Woody Guthrie heavily influenced Dylan. He even helped him land his first record with
Columbia, and began inviting to the Newport Folk Festival. He was there when Dylan went
electric for the first time at the festival in 1965. There are many accounts of how Seeger reacted,
but the overall consensus is that he was not pleased, either because of the Dylan using an electric
guitar, or simply its poor distortion, and his inability to hear the lyrics. Dylan, and rock music,
might not be where they are today if Seeger hadn’t taken an interest in him early on in his career.
He was penned the song “Turn! Turn! Turn! (To Everything There is a Season),” which ended
up becoming a folk-rock hit by The Byrds. By the end of the 1960s, Pete Seeger was a wellknown
figure in the American household.
The 1970s were much of the same for Seeger as the 60s, but with more national
appearances and recognition. Many of the songs he sang were also focused on the environment. 
Devin O’Connor 5
He was an advocate for environmental protection and awareness. The song “Garbage” pointed
out the wastefulness of the capitalistic culture in the United States. He finally saw the fruits of
his efforts in 1971 when the Clean Water Act was passed in 1972. This was a major victory for
him, since he had been fighting for water sanitation for years, also founding the Hudson River
Sloop Cleanup and the Clearwater Festival to attract attention to the issue in 1966 and 1969.
Throughout the rest of his career he continued to fight for what he thought was right, whether the
majority were on his side or not.
The last monumental moment in the singer’s career occurred in January 2009 when it
came full circle. A man who was previously blacklisted from television, and watched by the
federal government, sang Guthrie’s “This Land is Your Land” as it was originally written for
Obama’s Inauguration concert (Stevenson). Although he lost most of singing voice, Seeger
continued to perform concerts, usually accompanied by his grandson Tao Rodriquez-Seeger. His
wife passed away on July 9, 2013, and Seeger died soon after in January 27, 2014. Ending an
inspiring career filled with passion, protest, activism, and a bright view for the future.
Devin O’Connor 6
Works Cited
Clark, Brett and Scott Borchert. "Pete Seeger, Musical Revolutionary." Monthly Review 66.8
(2015): 20-29. Web. 28 September 2017.
"Pete Seeger." Contemporary Authors Online, Gale, 2014. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=lom_gvalleysu&v=2.1&it=r&id=GALE%7CH10
00089171&sid=summon&asid=3de10d921ac5febbeb56daed0483a0d7. Accessed 29
Sept. 2017.
Pete Seeger, Rob Rosenthal, Sam Roshenthal, David Amram. Pete Seeger in His Own Words. Paradigm Publishers, 2012. 28 September 2017.
Seeger, Pete. The Incompleat Folksinger. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1972.
Stevenson, Tommy. ""This Land Is Your Land" Like Woody Wrote It." TruthOut Archive.
Truthout, 19 Jan. 2009. Web. 29 Sept. 2017