Total Sentences: 69
Total Words: 1307
Total Syllables 2026
Reading Level Score 56.46913132186776
Reading Level: 10th to 12th Grade Reading Level

In this paper I will argue that folk music is an ontological mix of both classical and jazz
music. Works of folk music are created and appreciated similarly to classical music. They are
ontologically as thin as classical music, but have no set instrumentation, like jazz. A performance
needs to be recognizable to its audience like in classical, to be called a performance of a work.
However, like in jazz, there is a wide range for variation, as along as the music conveys a similar
message to the audience. Finally, performances allow for solos and improvisation in certain spots
as in jazz. When I use the term folk music I define it as music that has grown out of a community
without the influence of popular culture, has gone through the folk process of being orally passed
down, and can be performed by anyone (Washburne 176). The folk process includes all the
unintentional changes to the music, such as the lyrics being misunderstood, or the melody being
slightly changed. This process also passes down the style, or way, of how to play a certain song.
First, works of folk music are similar to works of classical music. According to Peter
Kivy in “The Work,” a musical work is a type, and all following performances are tokens of that
type (Kivy 207). A work is the thing that is being appreciated when we listen to music. All
performances can be compared to this initial instance of the work, or type, in order to decide if it
is a true performance. Types can have as many tokens, or performances, as possible. Just as this
is true for classical music, such as Beethoven’s fifth symphony, it is true for folk music. The first
tokening still has to take place for the work to be created. This can be done either by one person
or a group effort. The only difference is that instead of being written down and recorded, a piece
of folk music might be passed down through generations of people orally. Even though small
changes will happen, the music always remains true to the original work. 
Second, any recognizable performance is an instance of the work, and all performances
may be completely different. What I mean by recognizable is that an experienced listener,
someone who has heard the other versions of the song or tune before and is very familiar with
the genre, will immediately know that it is a performance of that work. This includes all parts of
the song. Even though everything about the song, such as the melody and lyrics, is subject to
change during the folk process, the original message to the audience remains the same. The idea
is that a song needs to be recognizable to an experienced listener is similar to classical
performances, which need to remain as close to the original work as possible. It is not a true
performance if you can’t tell what is being performed. The difference with folk music is that the
performer has a much greater impact on how to perform the work. According to The Good, The
Bad, and the Folk, each performer or singer is a composer in their own way (Washburne 175).
This is similar to jazz where the performer has total control. The difference is that jazz standards
can be unrecognizable to the experienced listener, while folk should be recognizable. The
process of orally passing down a song allows it to be specialized for that performance. As long as
the song communicates the same idea and feeling, the interpretation is another true performance.
Third, folk music is ontologically very thin, meaning that it doesn’t take much to be a
genuine performance. This is the similar to classical music. In order for a performance of
classical music to be a true performance, the musicians simply need to perform the score as
written with the required instruments. However, folk music is even thinner than classical. There
is no strict musical score to stick to and no set in stone instrumentation needed. Kania’s “All
Work and No Play: An Ontology of Jazz,” tells us that jazz isn’t created with specific ensemble
in mind (Kania 394). Just as jazz standards can be played with a variety of different instruments, 
so can folk. Changing how it is played doesn’t change the music if it gets the original feelings
across.
Fourth, performances of folk music allow for wide interpretation and include spots for
musicians to solo and improvise, much like jazz. Kania states in his article that improvisation is a
key part of jazz. It is one of its defining features of the genre. This is also a key part of folk
music. A great example of this is a jam session. This is an event where many different musicians
know the same tune or song and play along with each other. Of course, not all performers play
the song exactly the same way. Each performer may have their own time to solo the melody,
with everyone else backing them up. This allows them to show off their unique way of playing
and have fun with the otherwise standard material. Many bluegrass songs and tunes come from
traditional folk music and incorporate the improvisation from these jam sessions into the entire
performance. These improvisational performances of folk music are much less structured than
classical, but not as free as jazz. Folk music has the same type of works as classical while being
ontologically as thin, but allows for many different interpretations and for solos and
improvisation. Therefore, folk music is an an ontological mix of both jazz and classical music.
There might be a problem with the premise that folk music relies on improvisation as
much as jazz. The majority of folk music has no true improvisation like jazz does. The biggest
change is the music comes for being orally passed down not from on the spot decisions by the
performer. Even then the changes can be too small to even consider significant enough to count
as a true variation within the piece. Although you can vary how things are played, the music still
has to be recognizable to an experienced listener, and follow the pattern set by the original song.
Unlike jazz, where the performer has true freedom in how it is performed, the improvisation is
much more like that of classical music, where there is a certain section that has been designated 
as the improv section. This section must be played in a way that fits with what everyone else is
playing, since they will have to be playing backup, and if you go too far astray from the original
it is not a true performance. Since improv is not a major part of folk music, the premise isn’t true.
While it’s true that improv and solos aren’t an essential element of folk music, it still
remains part of it. The variation and changes to the music, instead of happening during the
performance, happen as it is passed down from one person to the next. Unlike classical improv
and solo sections, folk music doesn’t have any predefined sections. The decision of who will
solo and when is made up on the spot. Folk music doesn’t have any pre written sheet music that
should be performed if someone decides to not improvise. It is decided that it will be done or not.
The performers also have much more flexibility is how a part of the music sounds than in a
classical work. For example, the instrumentation the performer uses is completely up to them
which can drastically change how the music sounds to the listener. Unlike classical where the
soloing performer can only use a certain instrument, tuned a certain way, and played a certain
way.