RESULTS:
Total Sentences: 82
Total Words: 1680
Total Syllables 2638
Reading Level Score 53.19773519163766
Reading Level: 10th to 12th Grade Reading Level

Adam Stewart
Hayes Griffin
MUS 301 01
29 Sept. 2017

Royalty Takes the Stage

	What four person band rose up in the 70s with every member having wrote a number one single at some point?  In fact each member wrote at least two top-ten singles (note: many of these were on U.K. charts) (Saville, 2012 & “Queen: Under Review”, 2007).  It is none other than John Deacon, Roger Taylor, Brian May, and Freddie Mercury—otherwise known as Queen.  Queen rose to stardom through their unique song-to-song styles, changing the mold of “What a hit song should sound like...”, and being one of the best bands for the fans.  This was however,  not without hiccups along the way such as playing controversially in apartheid South Africa, dressing in drag, and Freddie Mercury’s contraction of AIDS.

	Freddie Mercury was a boy who grew up in various locations across his childhood.  Born in Bulsara, moved to Bombay, and moved again to Zanzibar due to his parents’ careers.  According to the documentary Discovering Queen, Mercury took an interest in music thanks to the likes of Little Richard and Lata Mangeshkar—a singer that he went to see while in India.  Mercury loved the energy of Little Richard and the impeccable vocal range of Mangeshkar, which would shape the way he would later perform.  Mercury formed a band at the age of 12 called the Hectics, in which they did Little Richard and Cliff Richard covers, with Mercury on the keyboard.  By 1964, 17 year old Mercury had to leave Zanzibar due to the Zanzibar Revolution, in which his family and him fled to London.  After going to school and falling in love with the rising Jimi Hendrix, he would soon run into a band called Smile.  Smile featured Brian May and Roger Taylor, and Mercury joined soon after as lead vocalist in 1970, followed eventually by John Deacon, their bassist.  Mercury would convince other band members to change the name to Queen, despite any possible gay connotations that came along with it, and the journey would begin (Saville, 2012).

	Queen would release their first album called Queen I in 1973 featuring somewhat popular songs “Seven Seas of Rhye” and “Keep Yourself Alive”.  Queen would continue to develop a style for themselves and find their footing, releasing Queen II in 1974.  Despite starting to develop a fanbase, critics were not fans of either of these albums.  This would start to develop Mercury’s bad relationship with critics, eventually saying “We all have our ups and downs, and we all have our limitations, and we all know that there’s certain things we can’t do, but I don’t want some critic to tell me that.” (Saville, 2012).  Toward the end of 1974 Queen released their third album, Sheer Heart Attack, which would contain their first international hit-single, “Killer Queen”.  Then not too far after, Queen would go on to release arguably their most successful album in 1975—A Night at the Opera.  It contained many classic songs, but one song in particular was like nothing anyone had heard before.  That song was “Bohemian Rhapsody.

	Freddie Mercury was the man who brought opera to rock n’ roll within “Bohemian Rhapsody”s 6 minute power ballad, which was a big deal for various reasons.  The members of Queen record vocals on top of vocals, which is interesting for the time because according to the documentary Queen: Under Review, it was recorded on tape.  This is important because in order to make it possible, they have to literally record over the tape in the same sections, to keep recording new vocals on top of it.  After doing this several times, it was starting to wear out the tape, showing the limits of the industry’s technology at this time, even with an 8-track.  The radio industry at the time also was never playing songs of this length.  There were few radio stations in the U.K. to start with, on top of the fact that many DJs did not like playing “Bohemian Rhapsody” due to its length.  It was not until Kenny Everett played “Bohemian Rhapsody” multiple times in a row to debut it (“Queen: Under Review”, 2007).  Along with this hit single, Queen released a music video.  Many music videos already existed, so this was not new, however people loved the “Bohemian Rhapsody” video so much due to its immersiveness.  Queen was ahead of their time due to the fact that they became one of the first bands to start selling their music with videos (Saville, 2012).  

	Queen would go onto release hit album after hit album with A Day at the Races, News of the World, and Jazz.  Continuing to experiment with different subgenres, sequencing, and song combinations.  This created a foundation for Queen’s great live performances.  Continuing to take inspiration from Little Richard and Jimi Hendrix, the members of Queen were an electrical bunch.  Their exciting performances bundled with songs like “We Will Rock You”, “We are the Champions”, and “Don’t Stop Me Now” made them one of the best bands to see on tour (Saville, 2012).

	After releasing the overwhelmingly popular in the U.S. albums, The Game and Hot Space, Queen began to release a bit more controversial content (Billboard Magazine, n.d.).  The next album they released was called The Works featuring “I Want to Break Free” and “Radio Ga Ga”.  This was when the music industry started release real music videos with songs, which were almost like mini-films, and this was when Queen made their controversial “I Want to Break Free” video, in which they dressed in drag doing housework.  This was when the U.S. fanbase started to dip, as many middle-high class Americans did not find the video funny (Saville, 2012). In fact it was so controversial that MTV ended up banning Queen from the U.S. network due to its gay connotations (Sherwin, 2011).  This on top of the fact that many expected Mercury to be gay himself, which at the time was not as widely accepted.  Especially due to the fact that as recently as 1967, the U.K. discriminated gay activity in individuals above the age of 21 in the Sexual Offenses Act, 1967.  Even though Mercury never straight forwardly said “I’m gay.”, he has implied it himself.  Mercury’s openly flamboyant-ness in concerts started to introduce and help normalize the idea of being gay in an era where it was looked down upon.

	Queen continued to receive backlash in 1984 when during their “The Works Tour”, went to apartheid South Africa to perform in concerts.  According to the Discovering Queen documentary, Queen stated that they were going to just play music to their fans, and that their fans were mixed race, however many thought this was ignorant.  People thought that since they were not a political band, they should not be doing something so political (Saville, 2012). Despite simply wanting to do more for their fans, they lost many in the process.

	People would continue to forget about Queen (at least in the U.S.), until many bands got together to play for the event Live Aid in 1985.  Live Aid was charity event to raise funds for the ongoing Ethiopian famine.  This was when Queen jumped back onto people’s radar, with many people considering their performance to be one of the greatest live performances ever.  Their song list included: “Bohemian Rhapsody”, “Radio Ga Ga”, “Hammer to Fall”, “Crazy Little Thing Called Love”, “We Will Rock You”, and “We Are the Champions”, some of the best stadium songs (Simon Christensen).  This performance was what many would go on to remember Queen by.

	Queen would continue to release albums here and there, even with each member releasing their own solo albums, but not many songs were widely popular upon release.  The amazing thing about their albums however was how they were able to jump from subgenre to subgenre on a song to song basis.  They are able to have a classic rock song with “Killer Queen”, then go to disco with “Another One Bites the Dust”.  Opera with “Bohemian Rhapsody”, jazz with “Don’t Stop Me Now”, gospel with “Somebody to Love”, and even with an Elvis Impression type song with “Crazy Little Thing Called Love” (Saville, 2012).  Rarely can a band dabble with so many styles, and consistently release hit after hit with them, but Queen did it like it was nothing throughout their albums.

	Freddie Mercury would go on to die in 1991 at the young age of 45, the day after he publicly announced that he had AIDS.  This would confirm many’s supsects of Mercury being gay, and bring great awareness to AIDS.  According to Katharina Abel, Mercury’s tribute concert was and still is the largest concert held to a deceased person with 72,000 tickets sold in Wembley Stadium.  The concert was broadcasted live to 76 countries with about 1 billion people tuning in to watch.  David Bowie, Guns N’ Roses, Metallica, Elton John, and many more performed, with all proceeds going to an AIDS charity (Abel, 2017).  

	Though the band Queen still exists today, an album was never released without Mercury in it, even after his death.  Many praise Queen for their abilities to jump from subgenre to subgenre, innovating in the rock n’ roll genre, incredible live performances, bring awareness to AIDS, and even helped normalize the idea of being gay.

Work Cited:
Abel, Katharina. “The Largest Farewell: The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert 25 Years Ago.”DW.COM, Deutsche Well, 19 Apr. 2017, www.dw.com/en/the-largest-farewell-the-freddie-mercury-tribute-concert-25-years-ago/a-38487337. Accessed 20 Sept. 2017.
Billboard Magazine. “Queen Chart History.” Billboard.com, Billboard, www.billboard.com/artist/277241/queen/chart. Accessed 20 Sept. 2017.
Saville, Lyndy, director. Discovering Queen. 3DD, 2012, gvsu.kanopystreaming.com/video/discovering-queen. Accessed 20 Sept. 2017.
Sherwin, Adam. “Final Freddie Mercury Performance Discovered.” The Independent, Independent Digital News and Media, 29 May 2011, www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/music/news/final-freddie-mercury-performance-discovered-2290788.html. Accessed 20 Sept. 2017.
Simon Christensen. “Queen - Live at LIVE AID 1985/07/13 [Best Version].” Online video clip. YouTube. YouTube, 24 Dec. 2014. Web. Accessed 20 Sept. 2017.
“Queen: Under Review 1946–1991—The Freddie Mercury Story.” Films Media Group, 2007, fod.infobase.com/PortalPlaylists.aspx?wID=96351&xtid=51119. Accessed 20 Sept. 2017.


