RESULTS:
Total Sentences: 21
Total Words: 428
Total Syllables 711
Reading Level Score 45.609548286604365
Reading Level: College Reading Level

The authorities in America were working to contain a potential environmental disaster today in an oil spill from a collapsed rig in the Gulf of Mexico.


Sign up to the Green light email to get the planet's most important stories
 Read more
Coastguard officials in New Orleans said the spill, from the Deepwater Horizon rig, covered an estimated 10 square miles.

The British Petroleum-operated Deepwater Horizon burned ferociously for nearly two days before sinking yesterday . Eleven workers remain missing, and are presumed dead.

Oil officials initially feared up to 336,000 gallons of crude oil a day could be rising from the sea.

That would have presented an ecological catastrophe for coastal wetlands with rich habitats for birds and nurseries for fish and shrimps.

"If it [the oil] gets landward, it could be a disaster in the making," Cynthia Sarthou, executive director for the environmental group Gulf Restoration Network, told reporters.

But the coastguard downplayed initial fears of a major ecological disaster for the fragile coastlines of Mississippi and Louisiana, saying there was no indication that oil was continuing to pump from an open well on the ocean floor. "It doesn't seem to be spreading," a spokesperson said.

Preliminary indications yesterdaypointed to such a worst-case scenario. Barack Obama issued a statement saying the aftermath of the rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico remained a "number one" priority, and BP officials acknowledged there could be serious environmental consequences.

"I think it could have the potential to be a major spill," said David Raine, BP's vice-president.

But the coastguard said this morning sonar and remotely operated vehicles deployed near the destroyed rig had found no indication as yet that oil was continuing to gush from the well site on the ocean floor.

"We have been able to determine there is nothing emanating from the well head," Coastguard Rear Admiral Mary Landry told ABC television. "That being said, we have positioned resources to be ready to respond should a spill occur ... We will continue to monitor 24/7 for the next several days."

Officials launched a major clean-up operation yesterday , deploying 500,000 feet of boom to contain the spill and spraying chemicals from aircraft to disperse the oil. Several boats were deployed to skim the oil from the surface.

A spokesperson at the command centre said the coastguard was fairly confident of breaking up the oil before it reached the coast.

"We expect it to reach the shore within nine days but we should be able to stop it before that happens," the spokesperson said. "The coastguard is very positive about that."